---
layout: default
subsections: [admin, concepts, developing, plugins]
---
h1. Dedomenon

Dedomenon is a flexible structured online information storage system.

Dedomenon is open source and released under the terms of "GNU Affero General Public License":http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl.html

Join our "mailing list":http://lists.dedomenon.org/mailman/listinfo/discuss/ to stay up to date and discuss with other users and developers.

h2. Overview

* Storage of many types including text, integer, email, web addresses and files.
* Allows linking pieces of information easily.
* Extensible in accommodating new data types.
* Plugin based framework for adding new datatypes

h2. Online Demo

Will be available soon

h2. Upcoming features

* Accessible via very easy and intuitive REST API (work in progress)
* Import and export in multiple formats (work in progress)
* Standardization of UI on single JavaScript core
* Develop import export from excel sheet
* Develop export to PDF
* Add reporting, or export table in PDF document
* Add constraints on detail values. For ex for date, only allow dates in
  the future, or in a certain date range.
* Add the ability to tag a record, with tags being user specific.
* Add a framework for callbacks: before save, after save, before delete,
  after delete.



h2. Admin Documentation

* [[Installing Dedomenon]]
* [[Dedomenon Concepts]] (useful for users and developers alike)

h2. Developer Documentation

h3. Developing Dedomenon

* [[Database structure]]
* [[How instances are fetched?]]
* [[Controllers]]
* [[Models]]
* [[Configurations]]
* [[Dedomenon Plugins]]
* [[DeveloperGuideLines|Developer Guide Lines]]

h3. Developing on Dedomenon

* [[REST API Documentation]]

h3. Extending Dedomenon

* [[Writing new export plugins]]
* [[Writing new data type]]
* [[PluginsDirectory | Available plugins]]


h3. [[About us]]
